===== PAGE 1 =====
DAPIE:  Interactive  Step-by-Step  Explanatory  Dialogues  to  Answer  
Children’s  Why  and  How  Qestions  
Yoonjoo  Lee  Tae  Soo  Kim  Sungdong  Kim  
School  of  Computing,  KAIST  School  of  Computing,  KAIST  NAVER  AI  Lab  
Daejeon,  Republic  of  Korea  Daejeon,  Republic  of  Korea  Seongnam,  Republic  of  Korea  
yoonjoo.lee@kaist.ac.kr  taesoo.kim@kaist.ac.kr  sungdong.kim@navercorp.com  
Yohan  Yun  Juho  Kim  
School  of  Computing,  KAIST  School  of  Computing,  KAIST  
Daejeon,  Republic  of  Korea  Daejeon,  Republic  of  Korea  
yohanme@kaist.ac.kr  juhokim@kaist.ac.kr  
Figure 1: While existing conversational agents (CAs) are able to answer children’s diverse “why” and “how” questions by 
retrieving explanations from the internet, these explanations are lengthy and require the child to perform complex reasoning. 
In this work, we present DAPIE, a novel system that transforms existing long-form answers into interactive dialogues. Through 
an AI-based pipeline, the system generates dialogue trees that present explanations step-by-step while prompting the child to 
engage with them and check their understanding. 
ABSTRACT 
Children acquire an understanding of the world by asking “why” 
and “how” questions. Conversational agents (CAs) like smart speak-
ers or voice assistants can be promising respondents to children’s 
questions as they are more readily available than parents or teach-
ers. However, CAs’ answers to “why” and “how” questions are not 
designed for children, as they can be difcult to understand and 
provide little interactivity to engage the child. In this work, we 
propose design guidelines for creating interactive dialogues that 
promote children’s engagement and help them understand expla-
nations. Applying these guidelines, we propose DAPIE, a system 
that answers children’s questions through interactive dialogue by 
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or 
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed 
for proft or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation 
on the frst page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the 
author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or 
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specifc permission 
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org. 
CHI ’23, April 23–28, 2023, Hamburg, Germany 
© 2023 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM. 
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-9421-5/23/04. . . $15.00 
https://doi.org/10.1145/3544548.3581369 
employing an AI-based pipeline that automatically transforms ex-
isting long-form answers from online sources into such dialogues. 
A user study (N=16) showed that, with DAPIE, children performed 
better in an immediate understanding assessment while also re-
porting higher enjoyment than when explanations were presented 
sentence-by-sentence. 
CCS CONCEPTS 
• Human-centered computing → Interactive systems and 
tools; Empirical studies in HCI; Natural language interfaces. 
KEYWORDS 
Children, Conversational Agents, Dialogue, Question Answering, 
Natural Language 
ACM Reference Format: 
Yoonjoo Lee, Tae Soo Kim, Sungdong Kim, Yohan Yun, and Juho Kim. 2023. 
DAPIE: Interactive Step-by-Step Explanatory Dialogues to Answer Chil-
dren’s Why and How Questions. In Proceedings of the 2023 CHI Conference 
on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI ’23), April 23–28, 2023, Ham-
burg, Germany. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 22 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/ 
3544548.3581369 
===== PAGE 2 =====
CHI ’23, April 23–28, 2023, Hamburg, Germany 
1 INTRODUCTION 
Asking “why” and “how” questions is an important theory-building 
mechanism for children, as answers to those questions can help 
the child gain a causal understanding of the world [14]. Children 
as young as three years old can formulate sophisticated questions 
to resolve gaps in knowledge or perceived inconsistencies [13] on 
a variety of phenomena: natural, biological, physical, cultural, and 
social [14]. As children can frequently perceive such gaps or in-
consistencies, they require responders who could provide quality 
answers to their questions in time [79]. Thus, the availability of re-
sponders is important for young children. Moreover, knowing that 
a responder is available [79] can encourage children to ask more 
questions and improve learning. In terms of availability, conversa-
tional agents (CAs), like Alexa or Google Assistant, can ofer great 
value in acting as responders to children’s questions. Through CAs, 
children gain access to a huge amount of information available on 
the internet without being fuent in reading or writing [28]. More-
over, unlike adult responders, CAs are always available to answer 
children’s questions [78] and have become increasingly common 
in home settings [64]. 
However, beyond challenges caused by CA’s inaccurate speech-
to-text translation, prior work has demonstrated CA’s answers are 
frequently inadequate for children [28, 58]. For example, when 
asked “Why do polar bears have white fur?”, Google Assistant re-
sponds with the following: “Polar bears have white fur so that they 
can camoufage into their environment. Their coat is so well camou-
faged in Arctic environments that it can sometimes pass as a snow 
drift. Interestingly, the polar bear’s coat has no white pigment; in fact, 
a polar bear’s skin is black and its hairs are hollow. ” 
These types of long responses are challenging for children to 
understand because they often require the child to possess the prior 
knowledge needed and to interpret possibly complex reasoning 
chains [58]. Furthermore, existing CAs provide long responses at 
once without prompting, which leads to them not being able to 
identify what a child did not understand or to engage them in a 
conversation. These challenges stem from the fact that most CAs 
are powered by computational pipelines designed for adults. For 
example, information retrieval models, which are commonly used 
models in pipelines to make CAs, identify relevant passages from 
the internet and bring these raw long answers to be presented as a 
response [36, 45, 85]. On the other hand, generative long-form ques-
tion answering (LFQA) models have also been designed to generate, 
long-form answers to given questions [25, 52, 53, 63]. However, 
these models typically provide the answers only focusing on an-
swers’ factuality or accuracy with no careful considerations for 
children. To answer children’s “why” and “how” questions by lever-
aging CA’s availability and their ability to connect children to vast 
amounts of information, we aim to transform long answers into in-
teractive conversations that can enhance children’s understanding 
and engagement. 
To identify efective techniques for answering children’s ques-
tions and for presenting explanations in a form that is comprehen-
sible for children, we propose design guidelines for step-by-step 
interactive dialogues that scafold children’s understanding on their 
own “why” and “how” questions. The guidelines present common 
conversational turns and strategies that can be employed to engage 
Lee et al. 
children in conversations, diagnose their understanding, and pro-
vide adequate interventions to help them overcome difculties. To 
construct these guidelines, we frst conducted an iterative inductive 
analysis on challenges and lessons from prior literature in child 
development, and conducted consultancy sessions with four child 
education experts to refne and validate our guidelines. 
Applying these guidelines, we propose DAPIE (Dialogic Answering 
via Piecemeal Interactive Explanations), a novel system that an-
swers children’s questions through step-by-step interactive dia-
logues that adapt explanations contained in existing long answers. 
To power this system, we propose an AI-based pipeline that au-
tomatically transforms existing long answers into dialogue trees 
that CAs can perform. The pipeline consists of two main steps that 
adhere to our design guidelines: (1) decompose and structure the 
long-form answer into chains of sub-explanations (e.g., tree struc-
ture) that provide the information step-by-step; and (2) augment 
the tree with additional dialogue turns to diagnose the children’s 
understanding and provide adaptive interventions. Through a tech-
nical evaluation of the modules in our pipeline, we found that our 
pipeline outperformed baseline techniques according to measures 
that correspond to our design guidelines. 
To understand whether our interactive explanations improve 
children’s understanding of the information and engagement, we 
conducted a within-subjects study with 16 participants aged fve 
through seven. They experienced DAPIE and the baseline which 
provide a sentence at a time using the same source as DAPIE. Our 
study revealed that children when using our system got a signif-
icantly higher score in an immediate assessment and showed a 
signifcantly higher level of engagement than when using the base-
line system. Children reported that DAPIE was a better teacher, and 
provided more comprehensible and enjoyable dialogue. We believe 
that DAPIE is a frst step at extending CAs and smart speakers to 
interactively and adaptively answer children’s questions to foster 
children’s curiosity and enhance their understanding about the 
world. 
The contributions of this work are as follows: 
• Design guidelines for supporting explanations that answer 
children’s “why” and “how” questions through step-by-step 
and interactive dialogues. 
• DAPIE, a system that serves interactive dialogues through 
an AI-based pipeline that transforms existing long-form an-
swers into dialogues that follow our guidelines. 
• Findings from a user study demonstrating how these gener-
ated interactive dialogues can help children’s understanding 
and promote engagement. 
2 RELATED WORK 
We review research on (1) children’s question answering behavior, 
(2) child-CA conversations, and (3) existing long-form question 
answering techniques. 
2.1 Children’s Question Answering Behavior 
Children ask many questions to acquire information and develop 
knowledge about the world [13, 32]. Beyond fact-based questions, 
children also ask“why” and “how” questions that require explana-
tions about causal relationships or mechanisms [13, 44]. According 
===== PAGE 3 =====
DAPIE: Interactive Dialogues for Answering Children’s Why and How Qestions 
to developmental psychologists, questions and answers (QAs) help 
children construct complex causal knowledge [13], so QA-based 
conversations with more knowledgeable others (e.g., parents, in-
structors, or CAs) are important for children’s development [82]. 
Studies observed that children prefer answers with satisfactory 
amounts of information [14, 27] and will ask follow-up questions if 
not satisfed [26, 62], indicating that question asking is not simply to 
seek attention. Due to children’s well-known need for information, 
substantial research (covered by our guidelines in Section 3) inves-
tigated how to efectively answer children’s questions. However, 
these factors are rarely considered in the design of existing CAs. 
To address this gap, we qualitatively analyzed literature related to 
answering children’s question and consulted experts in children 
development to propose design guidelines for creating dialogues 
that efectively answer children’s “why” and “how” questions. 
2.2 Child-CA Conversations 
Recently, several studies investigated the experiences of children 
with conversational agents (CAs) in the form of smart speakers or 
voice assistants [22, 58, 74]. By observing interactions in natural 
settings, these studies demonstrated that children interact with 
CAs on diverse topics [74] and ask questions on various domains 
(e.g., science, culture, language) [58]. Further, studies showed that 
children view CAs as friendly, trustworthy, safe, and always avail-
able for them [22, 58, 89]—providing evidence on the potential of 
CAs as conversational partners for children. Despite their potential, 
research on CAs has revealed several challenges regarding child-CA 
interactions [38]. For example, CAs’ speech recognition frequently 
misinterprets or fails to understand children’s speech [38] which 
leads to breakdowns in conversation [74]. To resolve these break-
downs, Cheng et al. [9] observed that more capable adults can 
provide scafolding strategies, and Xu et al. [89] designed conver-
sational patterns to guide children’s responses and prevent break-
downs. However, beyond such breakdowns, children can struggle 
to parse and understand CAs’ responses as they can be long and 
complex [28, 58] and little research has investigated how to scafold 
children’s understanding of CAs’ responses. In this work, we aim 
to maximize the benefts of CAs as conversational partners for chil-
dren by introducing a novel approach that automatically creates 
interactive dialogues that answer children’s questions on-the-fy, 
but with the adequate scafolding that children necessitate. 
2.3 Existing Question Answering Datasets and 
Applications 
In natural language processing (NLP), QA tasks involve (1) ex-
tracting unambiguous short answers from text or (2) generating 
free-form answers for given questions and passages. Long-form 
Question Answering (LFQA) , a subset of the latter, aims to answer 
more open-ended questions that require explanations. To drive re-
search in this area, researchers have constructed various datasets 
(e.g. SQuAD [66], Natural Questions [45], ELI5 [25]) and, based 
on these datasets, have investigated the structure of long-form an-
swers [86] and methods to improve the faithfulness of answers [76]. 
On the other hand, conversational question answering (CQA) aims 
to generate multi-turn QAs where a questioner and an answerer 
converse with each other (e.g., CoQA [67], QuAC [12], QReCC [1]). 
CHI ’23, April 23–28, 2023, Hamburg, Germany 
Although CQA models ofer more interactivity than conventional 
single-turn QA, communication is one-way and lacks considera-
tions on how the answerer can help or engage with the questioner. 
In HCI, researchers have devised QA systems that consider users’ 
understanding or engagement to help them learn programming [84], 
math [8], and factual knowledge [72]. Although these systems pro-
vide educational benefts, signifcant manual efort is needed to 
create diverse QA dialogues. To decrease efort and increase diver-
sity, Promptiverse [46] introduces a human-AI approach to annotate 
knowledge graphs which are then automatically traversed to gener-
ate QAs. However, this work focused on general learners and lacks 
consideration for children, who require diferent support. 
3 GUIDELINES FOR DESIGNING 
EXPLANATORY DIALOGUES 
In this work, we propose a set of guidelines that outline how to 
construct explanatory dialogues to answer children’s “why” and 
“how” questions. While research in child development, cognitive 
psychology, and education has investigated how children ask ques-
tions and understand explanations, little work has compiled and 
organized the fndings into design lessons. To address this gap, 
we present guidelines that describe how to deliver explanations 
through dialogues that are catered to children’s understanding and 
engagement. 
3.1 Method 
To identify relevant literature, we conducted a keyword-based 
search on Google Scholar and the ACM Digital Library using the 
terms: “question-asking behavior of children”, “answering children’s 
questions”, and “explanations for children”. Through several cycles, 
we expanded our set of search terms by collecting keywords men-
tioned in sampled literature, and sampling more literature by com-
bining the terms. Details in the Supplementary Materials. 
Based on the collected papers, three of the authors conducted 
iterative coding through inductive analysis to organize the fndings 
and lessons in the papers, and discover recommendations from the 
data. Any discrepancies in coding were negotiated until mutual 
agreement was achieved. Based on the analysis, we categorize these 
recommendations into design guidelines. 
To verify and revise our guidelines, we then conducted a design 
consultancy with four experts in child education. The experts all 
had majored in child education (one M.S., three Ph.D.) and two also 
had more than fve years of experience teaching children. During 
the consultancy, the experts were asked to evaluate our frame-
work by revising dialogues that the authors made by applying the 
framework, and to apply the framework themselves by designing 
dialogues for given pairs of questions and long-form answers. 
By qualitatively analyzing the experts’ feedback, we found the 
following general guides which served to support and extend our 
guidelines. First, all experts mentioned that it is essential to “de-
compose information into smaller steps” when explaining verbally 
due to children’s limited attention span and working memory. To 
decide on what information to omit when simplifying explanations, 
experts suggested considering importance (i.e., what the child needs 
===== PAGE 4 =====
CHI ’23, April 23–28, 2023, Hamburg, Germany 
to know) and acceptance (i.e., what the child can understand). Af-
ter providing a small chunk of information, three experts recom-
mended asking the child if they understood as each child might 
understand diferently and might need further explanations based 
on their prior knowledge. They suggested that an explainer can 
then provide “further information if the child understands, or provide 
adjusted explanations if they do not”. When checking children’s 
understanding, two experts mentioned that true/false or multiple 
choice questions are used often in practice. More detailed feedback 
is refected in our guidelines below. 
3.2 Guidelines 
Based on our analysis of literature and design consultancy with ex-
perts, we present guidelines for efectively constructing interactive 
dialogues that answer “why” and “how” questions from children. 
The frst section in our guideline describes how answers can be 
decomposed into a step-by-step explanation to scafold children’s 
reasoning. Beyond reasoning, children can struggle to understand 
answers as they may lack prior knowledge and can have difculties 
in staying engaged. Therefore, the second section describes how, 
during an explanation, the explainer can interact with the child 
to promote engagement and check their understanding to provide 
suitable interventions. 
3.2.1 Constructing a Chain of Explanatory Units. To present expla-
nations step-by-step, we suggest that explainers construct chains 
of explanatory units. Specifcally, explainers should decompose the 
explanation into sub-units, identify relevant sub-units and their 
relationships, and present these units based on their identifed rela-
tionships. By building relationships between concepts as they learn 
new concepts, explainers can help children achieve meaningful 
learning [2]. 
Decomposing Complex Explanations into Simpler Units 
When providing complex explanations, we suggest that explain-
ers decompose the explanation into simpler units to help children 
understand complex concepts while avoiding signifcant cognitive 
load [23, 58]. By decomposing, explainers can lower complexity 
by unpacking the varying factors, entities, and relations contained 
in an explanation so that the child can process each one indepen-
dently [31]. 
Identifying Relevant Units and Relations To aid and guide 
children’s reasoning, explainers should identify and denote the 
factors in an explanation that are necessary to achieve an under-
standing. By highlighting relevant factors for a child, the child 
can identify them as well, focus on them, and reason about the 
relationships between them [41]. 
Connecting the Units With the relevant units and relationships 
identifed, explanation should be presented in a cumulative and 
causal manner. Specifcally, an explanation should indicate how 
one unit in the explanation leads to the subsequent unit, since 
this guides children to carry out sophisticated reasoning on the 
relationships between the presented information [73]. Moreover, 
prior work demonstrated that children show greater curiosity and 
learning when explanations elaborate on causal connections [37]. 
Lee et al. 
3.2.2 Designing Interactive and Understandable Dialogues. Beyond 
constructing chains of explanations, we recommend that explain-
ers expand on these chains to carry out interactive dialogues that 
support understanding and promote engagement. For this purpose, 
we suggest a systematic structure for guided dialogues between an 
explainer and a child, and recommend multiple strategies for the 
explainer to engage with the child and to adapt explanations to the 
child’s level of understanding. Specifcally, we adapted the three 
key components of efective dialogues with children (i.e., questions, 
feedback, and scafolding), which were designed for contexts where 
adults ask questions to children [75], to our context where a child 
asks questions to an explainer. Several studies have applied these 
components to create CAs for preschool-aged children [87, 89]. 
We propose a dialogue structure where each turn of dialogue is 
composed of three sub-turns: Feedback, Explanation, and Ques-
tion. The explainer frst provides feedback by building upon the 
child’s utterance. Then, the explainer provides an explanatory unit 
relevant to the child’s answers. The explainer then ends the turn 
with a question that invites the child to engage in the dialogue. For 
example, when a child cannot understand an explanation about 
how bees make honey, the explainer can respond with “That’s al-
right. Nectar is a sugary liquid that fowers produce. Do you get that?” 
where the sentences represent feedback, explanation, and question, 
respectively. Below, we describe each sub-turn, the various roles 
that each sub-turns can perform to support children, and strategies 
through which these roles can be performed. 
Feedback involves the explainer verbally commenting on the 
child’s response to the explainer’s prompt. For example, the ex-
plainer corrects the child’s answer (contingency) or praises their 
attempt to answer through contingency feedback (encouragement). 
Direct and specifc feedback helps children clarify their confusion 
and increase their engagement [4, 48, 80]. 
Explanation delivers information after the explainer has pro-
vided feedback on the child’s response. Explanations can perform 
two roles: extension and adjustment. 
For extension, the explainer elaborates on the topic by provid-
ing a new explanatory unit like further details or new pieces of 
information to deepen the dialogue [7, 13, 15, 40, 62]. Adjustment 
is adapting the explanation to the child’s developmental levels, 
and the cognitive and linguistic demands the child faces during 
the dialogue with the aim of facilitating child’s understanding. For 
adjustment, explainer gives an explanatory unit that was already 
provided once, but adapts its content or language. 
We propose several strategies for both extension and adjustment 
sub-turns (Table 1). Dialogues can be designed with these strate-
gies to help children understand new information provided in an 
extension, or, in case the child was unable to understand, the strate-
gies can be applied to create additional alternative explanations 
to use as adjustments. Local strategies (i.e., Simplifying, Providing 
examples, Summarizing, Providing analogies, Providing personif-
cations, Representing or demonstrating) are applied individually on 
explanation sub-turns according to the intervention that the child 
requires. Global strategies (i.e., Textual simplifcation, Explicitly 
mentioning coherence, Global adjustment, Highlighting relevancy) 
apply to all explanation sub-turns in a dialogue, and act as general 
support that can beneft all children. Table 1 presents local and 
global strategies and guidelines for each strategy. 
===== PAGE 5 =====
 Strategies  Guidelines 
 G1.  Use  language  that  matches  child’s  level  of  comprehension  [24]. 
 Simplifying  G1-1.  Change  scientifc,  technical,  or  formal  terminology  into  simpler lan-
 guage. 
 G2.  Provide  various  examples  that  represent  new  or  unfamiliar  concepts  [71]. 
 G3.  Clearly  explain  the  relationship  between  the  original  concept  and exam-
 Providing  ples  to  help  generalization  [10,  42]. 
 examples  G4.  Consider  child’s  prior  knowledge  when  choosing  examples. 
 G5.  Provide  examples  with  high  similarity  to  the  original  concept  [29]. 
 Summarizing 
 G6.  Clearly  indicate 
 G7.  First  provide  an 
 into  the  details  [50]. 
 the  core  principles  of  a  concept. 
 immediate  and  summarized  answer  to  a  question  before  diving 
 Local 
 Providing 
 G8.  Consider  the  child’s  unique  interest  and  experiences  when  choosing  a  comparison 
 target  [30,  56,  80]. 
 G9.  Explicitly  guide  the  child  to  recognize  the  similarities  between  the  source  and 
 analogies  target  [80,  81]. 
 G10.  Choose  a  target  that  presents  similar  entities  and  relations  to  those  in  the 
 source  [30]. 
 Providing 
 personifcations 
 G11.  Explain  unfamiliar  or  complex  entities  and  concepts  by  personifying  them  or 
 granting  them  human  attributes  [33]. 
 G12.  Personifcation  is  more  efective  when  the  entity  or  concept  shares  similarities 
 with  humans  [30,  34]. 
 Representing 
 or  demonstrating 
 G13.  Use  representations  and  demonstrations  to  illustrate  or  visualize  concepts. 
 G14.  Apply  simplifcation  to  all  information  [58]  by  considering  the  average 
 Textual 
 simplifcation 
 child  (local  strategy  G1-1  simplifes  for  a  specifc  child). 
 G15.  (Lexical)  Replace  difcult  terms  with  simpler  ones  [39]. 
 G16.  (Syntactical)  Simplify  the  syntactic  construction  of  sentences  [19]. 
 G17.  (Length)  Use  intermediate-length  sentence  [27]. 
 G21.  Explicitly  mention  the  coherency  between  turns  [42]  or  use  explicit 
 Explicitly  linking  language  [23,  49]  (e.g.,  “before  that”,  “then”). 
 mentioning  G22.  For  cause-and-efect  relationships,  explicitly  mention  how  an  event 
 Global  coherence  leads  to  the  response  (e.g.,  “When  all  the  pieces  touch,  energy  can  travel 
 from  the  battery  to  the  light”)  [43]. 
 Global 
 adjustment 
 G18. 
 G19. 
 G20. 
 Adapt  explanations  according  to  a  child’s  level  of  prior  knowledge  [42,  50]. 
 Adapt  explanations  according  to  a  child’s  personal  experiences. 
 Propagate  adjustments  made  in  prior  turns  through  the  whole  dialogue. 
 Highlighting  G23.  Redirect  children’s  attention  to  the  crucial  content  to  help  them  engage  in 
 relevancy  deeper  processing  [23,  42]. 
DAPIE: Interactive Dialogues for Answering Children’s Why and How Qestions CHI ’23, April 23–28, 2023, Hamburg, Germany 
Table 1: Guidelines for local and global strategies that can be used in adjustment and extension sub-turns. Strategies in bold 
were used in devising our system, DAPIE, presented in Section 4. 
Question After providing information to a child, the explainer 
can ask the question the child to invite them to participate and 
engage in the dialogue by answering the question. Our guidelines 
suggest three roles for questions: guiding, diagnosing understanding, 
and eliciting prior knowledge. Table 2 presents description of the 
roles and strategies for asking questions. 
4 DAPIE: CONVERSATIONAL AGENT TO 
SUPPORT INTERACTIVE DIALOGUES 
Based on our guidelines, we propose DAPIE, a novel system that 
automatically transforms existing long-form answers into inter-
active explanatory dialogues for children. Particularly, our com-
putational pipeline applies our guidelines through state-of-the-art 
NLP techniques (e.g., large language model (LLM)-based few-shot 
generation) to structure and augment long-form answers into com-
prehensible and interactive dialogue trees. Though this, DAPIE 
can leverage and adapt existing long-form answers on the internet, 
which are inaccessible to children, to answer children’s various 
===== PAGE 6 =====
CHI ’23, April 23–28, 2023, Hamburg, Germany Lee et al. 
Role Description Strategies 
Explainers can use guiding questions to scafold Let children know what information is missing or what 
Guiding children’s understanding by helping them narrow down 
their focus [17] or by leading them to consider other 
information [26, 61, 88]. 
information they can ask about [17, 26, 47, 61, 88]. 
Guide children to understand detailed information from a prior 
turn [17]. 
Diagnosis 
Explainers should diagnose children’s understanding to 
provide interventions if they failed to understand [42]. 
Diagnosis is more efective and reliable if the child is 
prompted to apply information from the explanation. 
Providing all but one piece of information and asking 
children to fll-in-the-blank. 
Ask children to give predictions. 
Ask children to self-explain. 
Ask children to decide whether a fact generalizes across items 
of varying similarity. 
Eliciting 
Explainers should check or ask about children’s prior 
knowledge to adjust explanations with knowledge that 
is more familiar to the child. [7]. 
Ask children about their knowledge. 
Ask experience-based questions. 
Table 2: Guidelines for the diferent roles that questions can take and specifc strategies that explainers can apply to enable 
these roles. Strategies in bold were used in devising our system, DAPIE, presented in Section 4. 
Figure 2: Overview of the frst step (Section 4.1) in our computational pipeline for DAPIE. Starting from an existing long-form 
answer, it constructs a chain of explanatory units (i.e., an initial dialogue tree). First, it splits a long-form answer into sentences 
and judges their relevance to a given question, whether it is a main or detail unit, with a T5-based analyzer [86]. Then, the 
sentences are connected to each other according to their pair-wise relevance score (i.e., next sentence prediction by BERT 
model [20]) to form a tree structure. 
‘why” and “how” questions. Our pipeline follows the two main pro-
cesses from our guidelines: (1) constructing chains of explanatory 
units from the long-form answer; and (2) designing an interactive 
and understandable dialogue by augmenting the chains. 
For examples of the fnal outputs generated by our pipeline, see 
Figure 5 for a dialogue tree, and Appendix A for a thread from a 
dialogue tree. 
4.1 Constructing Chains of Explanatory Units 
In the frst phase, our pipeline constructs chains of explanatory 
units by structuring the explanation in the long-form answer (Fig. 2). 
This phase involves (1) decomposing answers into units, (2) identi-
fying relevant units, and (3) connecting the units into step-by-step 
explanatory chains. 
4.1.1 Decompose. Our pipeline decomposes a long-form answer 
by splitting it into its constituent sentences: each sentence is an 
explanatory unit. We assume that each sentence represents one 
explanatory unit as writers are frequently encouraged to encapsu-
late one point or thought per sentence. By qualitatively analyzing 
a sample of 10 QA pairs from the “BBC Science Focus Magazine”, 
two of the authors verifed that this assumption generally held for 
professionally written explanations. 
4.1.2 Identify. Our guidelines suggest that explainers should iden-
tify factors that are relevant to guide children’s focus. As existing 
answers can include auxiliary information that is less relevant to a 
question [86], we employ the T5-based discourse analyzed by Xu et 
al. [86] to distinguish between relevant and auxiliary information. 
By employing this model, our pipeline frst classifes the sentences 
in a long-form answer into their functional roles: “summary”, “an-
swer”, “example”, or “auxiliary information”. Then, it assigns those 
classifed as “summary” or “answer” as main units (i.e., directly 
===== PAGE 7 =====
DAPIE: Interactive Dialogues for Answering Children’s Why and How Qestions CHI ’23, April 23–28, 2023, Hamburg, Germany 
Figure 3: In the second step, the pipeline simplifes all the explanations in the dialogue tree, and then integrates guiding 
prompts and coherency phrases to bridge children’s understanding across consecutive explanations. 
relevant), and those classifed to the other two roles as detail units 
(i.e., less relevant). 
4.1.3 Connect. With the units classifed, the pipeline connects the 
main units in the order that they appear in the answer. This chain 
serves as the main thread of the dialogue tree. As detail units are 
less relevant, we incorporate these as optional extensions for when 
a child desires more information. As our guideline suggests that 
explanations should be cumulative, we connect each detail unit to 
the main unit that it is most likely to build on. For this, the pipeline 
uses BERT base model [20] to performs next sentence prediction 
(NSP) between all detail and main units. We used an additional 
model to connect units, instead of relying on their ordering in 
the answer, as our qualitative analysis of 10 QA samples showed 
that detail units were not consistently adjacent to their relevant 
main units. For details, see “Connecting Explanatory Units” in the 
Supplementary Materials. 
With these steps, the pipeline produces an initial dialogue tree 
where each turn consists of an extension explanation sub-turn. 
Following this tree provides all of the most relevant information to 
the child’s question, with optional branches that provide additional 
details. 
4.2 Designing the Interactive and 
Understandable Dialogue 
In the second phase (Fig. 3 and 4), the pipeline augments the initial 
dialogue tree by incorporating feedback and questions to interact 
with a child, and adjustment explanations to scafold their under-
standing. We devised the augmentations based on our guidelines. 
For questions (Table 2), the pipeline incorporates (1) guiding ques-
tions to lead children to further information (i.e., other main or 
detail units), (2) diagnosis questions to check children’s under-
standing of main units through fll-in-the-blank questions, and (3) 
questions that elicit prior knowledge to identify what causes dif-
culties in understanding. For adjustment explanations, we adopted 
simplifcation and provided examples as local strategies (Table 1). 
Analogies and personifcations were not used as they are similar to 
exemplifcation, but only apply in narrower situations. Addition-
ally, the pipeline applies global strategies (Table 1) to simplify and 
mention coherency in all units. 
Our pipeline’s goal is to maintain the core information in an ex-
planation, but to incorporate additional turns that are coherent and 
follow our guidelines. With this goal, we employ an LLM as these 
models can produce text that coheres with the given context and 
follows given examples (i.e., few-shot learning). Specifcally, we use 
GPT-3 [5] to extend the dialog inpainting technique [16] that gen-
erates simulated dialogues where an LLM flls in questions from a 
“reader” and an “author” answers with sentences from a document. 
We extend this technique to simulate dialogues where a CA inter-
acts with a child through feedback-explanation-question sub-turns. 
To employ our extended technique, turn inpainting, we designed 
dialogue templates by imagining dialogues where a CA follows our 
guidelines to provide questions and adjustment explanations to a 
child. With the same 10 QA samples analyzed in Section 4.1.1, we 
performed prompt engineering to iterate on the templates until 
they produced satisfactory results. As LLMs can generate harmful 
words (e.g., swear words, vulgar words), our pipeline checks each 
===== PAGE 8 =====
(A) Generate Guiding Question 
CA: [Explanation sub-turn in ??] 
CA: [BLANK] 
Child: Yes, I want to know more about it. 
CA: [Explanation sub-turn in ?? + 1] 
(C) 
Generate Diagnosis Question 
CA: [Explanation sub-turn in ??] 
CA: Let me ask you a question. [BLANK] 
Child: The answer is [Answer for ??]. 
(E) 
Generate Term-based Example 
CA: [Defnition for term in ??] Did you get it? 
Child: No, I couldn’t understand it. 
CA: Don’t worry. Let me give you examples. As 
you know well, [BLANK]. They are all [Term in ??]. 
(B) 
Generate Coherency Phrase 
[Turns ?1 to ??−1] 
CA: [Explanation sub-turn in ??] 
CA: [Guiding question from ?? to ?? + 1] 
Child: Yes, I want to know more about it. 
CA: [BLANK] [Explanation sub-turn in ?? + 1] 
(D) 
Generate Elicit Question 
CA: [Explanation sub-turn in ??] 
CA: [BLANK] 
Child: Hmm. I don’t know. 
CA: It’s okay. [Defnition for term in ?
?] 
(F) 
Generate Clause-based Example 
CA: [Explanation sub-turn in ??] Did you get it? 
CA: No, I couldn’t understand it. 
CA: Don’t worry. Let me give you an example. 
[Clause in ??] is like [BLANK] 
CHI ’23, April 23–28, 2023, Hamburg, Germany Lee et al. 
Table 3: Prompt templates used as input for GPT-3 to produce the functionalities in our pipeline. The few-shot examples that 
are prepended to each template are available in the Supplementary Materials. 
generation output for such words and re-generates if found—our 
pipeline never had to re-generate during this work. 
4.2.1 Simplify. Due to children’s developing language skills, it can 
be benefcial to simplify all of the explanation sub-turns in the 
dialogue tree (G14 in Table 1). For simplifcation, our pipeline frst 
uses MUSS [59], a sentence simplifcation model with controllable 
attributes for the degree of lexical, syntactic, and length simpli-
fcation (G15, G16, G17 in Table 1). While adequate for syntactic 
and length simplifcation, we observed that this model’s lack of 
knowledge led to limited or incorrect lexical simplifcations. Thus, 
our pipeline uses GPT-3, which contains vast language knowledge, 
to simplify sentences one more time by combining the original 
sentence, the MUSS simplifcation, and few-shot examples into an 
input prompt (T1 in Supplementary Materials). 
4.2.2 Integrating Guiding Qestions. According to our guidelines, 
guiding questions can help children to engage further with a topic 
by previewing information to come (“Guiding” in Table 2). To gener-
ate these questions, our pipeline uses turn inpainting by construct-
ing a template (Table 3A) with two consecutive explanation turns, 
?? and ??+1. With this template and few-shot examples as input, the 
model flls in a guiding question, in place of [BLANK], that asks the 
child if they want to learn about the second turn. In the dialogue 
tree, the CA asks the question and moves to the next turn when 
the child accepts. If the next turn can be a main or detail unit, the 
CA asks the guiding question to the detail unit. With the guiding 
questions, the pipeline also uses turn inpainting to generate phrases 
that explicitly describe the coherency between turns and how an 
event leads to the response (global strategy G21, G22 in Table 1). 
For details, see “Creating Coherency Phrases” in Supplementary 
Materials. 
4.2.3 Designing Diagnosis Qestions. As our guideline suggests, it 
is crucial that an explainer checks whether a child understood an 
explanation and, if they did not, to provide suitable adjustments 
(“Diagnosis” in Table 2). We chose to generate fll-in-the-blank 
questions as the other strategies require free-form responses that 
are difcult to verify with existing techniques. To generate these 
questions, the pipeline identifes two potential difculties in the 
explanations to use as the “blank”: unfamiliar terms and complex 
cause-efect relationships. According to surveyed literature, these 
two were common challenges in children’s understanding [24, 30], 
and are core factors for answering “why” and “how” questions 
(i.e., prior knowledge and mechanistic reasoning). With GPT-3, our 
pipeline identifes these difculties, and then extracts a word/phrase 
from the difculty to use as the answer for the diagnosis question 
For details, see “Identifying Difculties and Correct Answers” in 
Supplementary Materials. 
With the difculties and answers extracted, the pipeline gener-
ates a diagnosis question using GPT-3 with a template (Table 3C) 
where the CA asks a [BLANK] question and the child gives the 
answer extracted by the pipeline (prompt T6 in Supplementary 
Materials). Finally, to narrow down children’s possible answers, we 
use GPT-3 to create alternative but wrong answers (prompt T7 in 
Supplementary Materials). 
In the dialogue tree, diagnosis questions are asked after the main 
turns. For correct answers, the dialogue provides contingency feed-
back ("Feedback" in Sec. 3.2.2) like “That’s correct!”and asks the 
guiding question. For incorrect answers, the dialogue provides feed-
back (i.e., “Hmm, I don’t think so”) and moves to adjustment turns 
according to the difculty (i.e., term or cause-efect). We provide 
adjustment turns after the main turns as our consulted experts 
suggested that children should frst be provided with information 
relevant to their question and then, if needed, provided with sup-
port. They explained that this retains the engagement of children 
who can understand, while guaranteeing fallback support for those 
who cannot. 
4.2.4 Adjustment Turns for Dificult Terms. To verify whether the 
child failed to understand because they did not know the difcult 
term, the pipeline generates a question to elicit prior knowledge 
(“Eliciting prior knowledge” in Table 2). The pipeline constructs 
a template (Table 3D) where the CA asks a [BLANK] question, the 
===== PAGE 9 =====
DAPIE: Interactive Dialogues for Answering Children’s Why and How Qestions CHI ’23, April 23–28, 2023, Hamburg, Germany 
Figure 4: In the fnal step, the pipeline constructs adjustment sub-trees that scafold children’s understanding of (1) difcult 
terms, or (2) cause-efect relationships. The types and number of adjustments provided depend on children’s answers to 
intermediate questions. After receiving the corresponding adjustments, the dialogue proceeds to the guiding questions for the 
next turn in the dialogue tree. 
child responds that they do not know, and so the CA provides a 
defnition for the difcult term. To visualize how the adjustment 
turns are connected in the dialogue tree, refer to Figure 4. 
Simplifcation Turn. If the child answers that they know the 
term, the pipeline ofers a more simplifed explanation (G1 in Ta-
ble 1). For this, the explanation in the main turn is simplifed again 
using the same simplifcation method as in Section 4.2.1. 
Defnition Turn. If the child does not know the term, the 
pipeline provides an extension explanation for the term. As LLMs 
can hallucinate [60] (i.e., generate false information), we retrieve 
defnitions from a verifed source, Merriam-Webster API1, instead 
of generating them. After retrieving, our pipeline simplifes the 
defnitions using our simplifcation method. The defnition turn 
provides this defnition and a simple diagnosis question asking the 
child if they understood or not. A simpler diagnosis is used to not 
exhaust children with frequent quizzing. 
Term Exemplifcation Turn. If the child could not understand 
the defnition, the CA should provide an additional adjustment to 
help them understand. Based on our guidelines, the pipeline gener-
ates various examples to illustrate the unfamiliar term by creating 
a template (Table 3E) where the CA provides [BLANK] examples 
of the unfamiliar term and explicitly indicates that they are all 
examples of the term (G2 and G3 in Table 1). Also, the prompt 
1https://dictionaryapi.com/ 
includes few-shot examples illustrating efective exemplifcation— 
i.e., familiar to children and have high similarity to the original 
concept (G4 and G5 in Table 1) We identifed that, beyond ques-
tions and coherency phrases, turn inpainting could also produce 
context-relevant adjustment explanations (e.g., examples) based on 
a simulated dialogue. 
4.2.5 Adjustment Turns for Cause-Efect Relationships. Causal rea-
soning can be challenging for children due to limited prior knowl-
edge on various cause-efect relationships [30]. To help children 
understand cause-efect relationships, the pipeline constructs two 
consecutive adjustment turns: a simplifcation turn, and a clause ex-
emplifcation turn. The simplifcation turn is the same as that in the 
adjustment turns for difcult terms. To view how the adjustment 
turns are connected, refer to Figure 4. 
Clause Exemplifcation Turn. When simplifcation is insuf-
cient, the pipeline creates an example of another similar cause-efect 
relationship. We generated examples based on the causes as we 
observed that generating from the efects lead to broader and more 
unrelated examples (G5 in Table 1). The pipeline constructs a dia-
logue template (Table 3F) where the CA compares the cause in the 
explanation to another [BLANK] phenomena. While this dialogue 
template was designed to create examples, the pipeline occasionally 
creates analogies—possibly due to the presence of commonly used 
analogies in GPT-3’s training data. 
===== PAGE 10 =====
CHI ’23, April 23–28, 2023, Hamburg, Germany Lee et al. 
Figure 5: Subtree taken from the dialogue tree generated by our computational pipeline from the answer to the question 
“How did people make languages?” The dialogue tree shows how the CA can provide an explanation, diagnose the child’s 
understanding, and the provide interventions (e.g., defnition, example) to help them if they have difculties understanding. 
===== PAGE 11 =====
DAPIE: Interactive Dialogues for Answering Children’s Why and How Qestions CHI ’23, April 23–28, 2023, Hamburg, Germany 
Figure 6: In the interface for DAPIE, the CA’s explanation is shown on the panel above and spoken through text-to-speech. 
After speaking the explanation, the interface presents the child’s response options in the panel below. 
4.3 Interface 
We developed DAPIE (Fig. 6), a CA that serves the interactive dia-
logues generated by our pipeline. DAPIE interacts with the child 
by frst saying an utterance, and then reading options to which the 
child can respond. The CA, implemented as a web-based interface, 
was designed based on prior work and insights from the expert 
consultancy. 
For each turn of a dialogue, DAPIE frst says their utterance and 
also displays the text. The speaking rate was set lower than default 
to prevent overloading the child, and we show text as an additional 
modality to beneft children who are able to read. After the agent 
fnishes its utterance, it reads out the options the child can respond 
with one-by-one while revealing them below the utterance. DAPIE 
pauses briefy after each time it speaks to let the child think and 
process what was just said. 
After all the options have been read, the child can respond by 
clicking on one of the options. Although we could have designed 
DAPIE as a fully voice-based interface, automatic speech recogni-
tion is still limited and error-prone—specifcally with children’s 
speech [38]. Since our goal is to help children understand and en-
gage with explanations, we designed our interface so that the child 
can accurately express their intent through clicks—protecting their 
understanding from being hindered by speech recognition errors. 
Furthermore, experts suggested limiting the child’s response op-
tions, instead of allowing free-form responses, as children might 
already be cognitively burdened from understanding the explana-
tions. 
When the child clicks on an option, the text is selected and it 
is read to them again. This allows the children to re-listen to any 
option (or even the utterance) in case they may have forgotten or 
failed to hear what was frst said. While an option is selected, the 
child can click on the option again to choose it and the dialog will 
then proceed to the next turn corresponding to that choice. This 
interaction repeats until the child reaches the end of the dialogue, 
after which they return to the main menu. 
5 TECHNICAL EV ALUATION 
We evaluated DAPIE through a pipeline evaluation and a user study 
(Section 6). The pipeline evaluation was conducted to verify the 
performance of each step in the pipeline, and the user study was to 
evaluate whether DAPIE’s interactive dialogues, as a whole, help 
children’s understanding and engagement. To validate our pipeline, 
we conducted human evaluations on the fve main sub-modules 
used to generate the dialogues: simplifcation, exemplifcation, guid-
ing question, diagnosis question, and elicit question. We focused 
on evaluating the text generation modules for questioning and 
adjusting (Section 4.2), since the modules for chain construction 
(Section 4.1) use of-the-shelf models. We provide a comprehensive 
analysis of each sub-module’s performance compared to their base-
lines, and an in-depth post-analysis according to characteristics 
of the input question-answer pairs (e.g., source type, domain, and 
question type) to understand whether our pipeline is generalizable. 
5.1 Method 
We compared the quality of generated sentences from the fve sub-
modules (i.e., simplifcation, exemplifcation, guiding question, di-
agnosis question, and elicit question) to those from corresponding 
baseline models. For the evaluation metrics, we saw that exist-
ing metrics for evaluating generated text depend on adult-centric 
===== PAGE 12 =====
Sub-module Measuring questions 
QS1. Which one uses more common and easier words while preserving the core information of the 
Simplifcation 
original text? (G15) 
QS2. Which one has a simpler sentence structure while preserving the core information in the 
original text? (G16) 
QS3. Which one excluded more unimportant information while preserving the core information of 
the original text? (G17) 
Exemplifcation 
QC1. Which example is more helpful for understanding of the context? (G2) 
QC2. Which example would be more familiar to a child? (G4) 
QC3. Which one follows the following rule better? (Rule: The context and the (example/analogy) 
have both similarities and diferences.) (G5) 
QC4. Which one is more relevant to the context? 
Guiding Question 
QG1. Which one would be more understandable to a child? 
QG2. Which one is closer to what a teacher or tutor would ask? 
QG3. Which one is more grammatically correct? 
QG4. Which question is more proper in the [BLANK] to connect the previous and following 
context? 
Diagnosis Question 
QD1. Which one would be more understandable to a child? 
QD2. Which one is closer to what a teacher or tutor would ask? 
QD3. Which one is more grammatically correct? 
QD4. Which question checks the understanding of a child about the context more properly? 
Elicit Question 
QE1. Which one would be more understandable to a child? 
QE2. Which one is closer to what a teacher or tutor would ask? 
QE3. Which one is more grammatically correct? 
QE4. Which question checks the prior knowledge of a child more efectively? 
QE5. Which question is more relevant or adequate with respect to the given following part (answer) 
of the [BLANK]? 
CHI ’23, April 23–28, 2023, Hamburg, Germany Lee et al. 
Table 4: Measuring questions used in our human evaluation of the pipeline sub-modules to measure the performance of the 
sub-modules compared to the baselines. The table also notes relevant guideline strategies (Table 1) that motivated certain 
question. 
datasets so they cannot adequately evaluate text generated for chil-
dren. Also, several of our modules perform novel tasks for which 
evaluation criteria do not exist. Therefore, by referring to our guide-
lines and commonly used measures in NLP, we defned diferent 
evaluation questions for each sub-module (Table 4). 
Test Data Collection: To evaluate whether our pipeline can 
be applied to various types of explanations, we collected test data 
(N=32) from multiple sources and domains. For sources, we chose an 
expert-generated source, BBC Science Focus Magazine, and a user-
generated source, ELI5 dataset [25]. From each source, we collected 
data that corresponds to four domains: natural phenomena, biology, 
physics, and cultural and social conventions. Then, for each source 
and domain combination (total of 8), we collected two QA pairs 
for “why” questions and two for “how” questions. This totaled to 
32 QA pairs (and more details are available in the Supplementary 
Materials). 
Baselines: For the baselines, we selected state-of-the-art models 
for existing tasks and, for our new tasks, we used an LLM as it could 
perform the task from given instructions. For exemplifcation, we 
adopted GPT-3 with a zero-shot prompt (T11 in the Supplementary 
Materials) as a baseline since there is no appropriate specialized 
model for this task—Wang et al. ’s [83] model is not open-sourced 
and is retrieval-based while our task is generative. For simplifcation, 
we adopted the state-of-the-art model MUSS [59]. For questioning, 
we trained a dialogue inpainting model following Dai et al. [16] 
using four datasets: QuAC [12], QReCC [1], DailyDialog [55], and 
Taskmaster [6]. Specifcally, we fnetuned the T5-large model [65] 
for three epochs with a learning rate of 3?−4. 
Procedure: Inspired by the ACUTE-EVAL method [54] which 
is widely used for comparing generated dialogues, we showed a 
human evaluator two responses, one from our sub-module and one 
from the baseline. Both responses were generated from the same 
input context. For simplifcation and exemplifcation, we provided 
the original sentence and a context sentence as input context. For 
question generation, we provided a multi-turn dialogue including 
the [BLANK] that the model flled in. The human evaluators looked 
at the input context and the two generated responses side-by-side. 
The evaluator was also shown the measuring questions that cor-
responded to the sub-module and, for each question, were asked 
to make a choice between the two responses or to choose “tie”. 
For each data point, we assigned three evaluators to collect three 
trials of such pairwise judgments, and used majority voting to des-
ignate whether our sub-module performed better, the baseline did, 
or whether it was a tie (e.g., the majority chose “tie”). We hired 
crowd workers as evaluators as the experts from our consultancy 
===== PAGE 13 =====
Simplifcation Exemplifcation Guiding Question 
Measuring QS1 QS2  QS3 QC1 QC2 QC3 QC4 QG1 QG2 QG3 QG4Questions 
Ours 52%  54% 57% 49% 46% 42% 49% 81% 80% 88% 76% 
Baseline 34% 32% 21% 40% 38% 32% 31% 9% 11% 6% 16% 
Tie 12% 14% 22% 11% 16% 26% 20% 10% 9% 6% 8% 
Diagnosis Question Elicit Question 
Measuring QD1 QD2 QD3 QD4 QE1 QE2 QE3 QE4 QE5Questions 
Ours 55% 70% 38% 69% 64% 83% 72% 53% 64% 
Baseline 27% 21% 17% 17% 14% 9% 21% 17% 14% 
Tie 18% 9% 45% 14% 22% 8% 6% 30% 22% 
DAPIE: Interactive Dialogues for Answering Children’s Why and How Qestions CHI ’23, April 23–28, 2023, Hamburg, Germany 
Figure 7: Overall human evaluation results for the fve sub-modules. Outputs from our pipeline were assessed favorably 
compared to those from the baselines for all of the sub-modules. 
Table 5: Human evaluation results on fve sub-modules shows, for each measurement question, the percentage of workers 
that preferred our pipeline’s outputs, the baseline’s outputs, or chose that it was a tie. For all fve sub-modules, our pipeline 
outperformed the baselines. 
mentioned that even the general public can evaluate how help-
ful and easy it would be for a child to understand given content. 
We recruited crowd workers from Amazon Mechanical Turk who 
were in the US and had task approval rates higher than 98%. Each 
worker evaluated all fve sub-modules (fve pairs per sub-module) 
and answered one gold standard question. Our task took around 
30 minutes and we paid workers $6 for their time. The fnal inter-
annotator agreement was rated as fair (Fleiss’s kappa=0.338). 
5.2 Results 
In short, the results generated by our pipeline were assessed fa-
vorably when compared to their corresponding baselines across 
all the criteria (Fig. 7). As seen in Table 5, the biggest diference 
between our sub-modules and the baselines was for the guiding 
questions (QG, 81% vs 10%), while the smallest diference was 
for example generation (QC, 47% vs. 35%). Evaluators judged that 
our simplifcation module generated text with easier words (QS1, 
52% vs. 34%) and simpler sentence structures (QS2, 54% vs. 32%) 
while preserving the core information in the original text. The dif-
ferences between our examples and the baseline’s were relatively 
small in terms of helpfulness (QC1, 49% vs. 40%) and familiarity 
(QC2, 46% vs. 38%) since both generally composed examples with 
easier words. Regarding the guiding (QG), diagnosis (QD), and 
elicit (QE) questions, there were apparent diferences between 
turn inpainting and the baseline across all criteria. We presume that 
the substantial diferences are derived from whether the models 
explicitly considered that the recipient of the question is a child 
or not. The baseline failed to generate adequate outputs, since the 
model had likely never seen dialogues with children at training 
time. Specifcally, evaluators rated all the questions from our turn 
inpainting approach to be more understandable for a child (QG1, 
QD1, QE1) and closer to what a teacher would ask (QG2, QD2, QE2). 
We found that the diference for grammatical errors is signifcant 
for guiding questions (QG3) while this gap is reduced for diagnosis 
questions (QD3) since these are usually simpler, e.g., “Did you get 
that?” or “What’s the problem?” 
For the QA pairs from both expert-generated and user-generated 
sources, our sub-modules produced better generations than the 
baseline did (Fig. 8 and 9). In terms of questioning, the diferences 
between our sub-modules and the baselines were irrespective of 
source and domain. For simplifcation and exemplifcation, the dif-
ference between the models was greater in the expert-generated 
sources, which are written more formally. When analyzing by do-
main, the diferences in simplifcation and exemplifcation seem 
to be greater in the Physics domain, which contains the most sci-
entifc content. Furthermore, we observed that the relatively poor 
exemplifcation performance in the Biology domain (39% vs. 38%) 
was due to our sub-module signifcantly underperforming QC3 
(27% vs. 42%). This implies that our exemplifcation outputs often 
included text duplicated from the given context, but the outputs 
still contained valid examples as they were assessed better for the 
===== PAGE 14 =====
CHI ’23, April 23–28, 2023, Hamburg, Germany Lee et al. 
Figure 8: Human evaluation results on the fve sub-modules according to the type of the source (i.e., expert-generated or 
user-generated). For all fve sub-modules, our pipeline outperformed the baselines in the both type of sources. 
Figure 9: Human evaluation results on fve sub-modules according to the domain. For all fve sub-modules, ours outperformed 
the baselines in all the domains. 
other criteria (i.e., QC1, QC2, and QC4). Nevertheless, we conclude sample generations for each of our sub-modules or baselines. For 
that our sub-modules overall perform better than the baselines simplifcation, our sub-module and baseline produced hallucina-
regardless of source and domain, but show greater diferences in tions for the same 10% of the inputs and, for exemplifcation, our 
formal or scientifc text for simplifcation and exemplifcation. sub-module produced fewer hallucinations (20%) than the baseline 
Additionally, as LLMs can generate hallucinations (i.e., non- (30%). Overall, both our sub-modules and baselines tended to hallu-
factual or nonsensical information) [60] or errors (e.g., grammat- cinate minor superfuous or incorrect details for the same inputs, 
ically incorrect or incoherent text), we qualitatively analysed 20 but our sub-modules were generally more robust to hallucinations. 
===== PAGE 15 =====
DAPIE: Interactive Dialogues for Answering Children’s Why and How Qestions 
Also, while we recognize that exemplifcation had a relatively higher 
chance of hallucinations, the potential negative impact of these is 
the least signifcant as examples do not modify the original explana-
tion and are the last resort support in our dialogues—only provided 
when children fail to understand after several adjustments. For 
question generation, all of our sub-modules produced few errors 
(<10%) while the baselines frequently produced questions that were 
incoherent or grammatically incorrect. For more details on this 
analysis, see the Supplementary Materials. 
6 USER STUDY 
We conducted a controlled study to investigate whether interactive 
conversations from DAPIE improve children’s understanding of 
concepts (RQ1) and increases engagement (RQ2) compared to a sim-
pler CA that provides the same information sentence-by-sentence. 
Sample Ratio 
Female 31.25% 
Age 
5-year-old 12.50% (? = 2) 
6-year-old 31.25% (? = 5) 
7-year-old 56.25% (? = 9) 
Predominant Home Language 
English 62.50% (? = 10) 
Other (Korean) 37.50% (? = 6) 
Race/Ethnicity 
Asian 50.00% (? = 8) 
White 18.75% (? = 3) 
Black 12.50% (? = 2) 
Other 18.75% (? = 3) 
Parents’ Education 
Bachelor’s degree or higher 81.25% (? = 13) 
Other 18.75% (? = 3) 
Usage of CA 
Daily or Weekly 25.00% (? = 4) 
Monthly 25.00% (? = 4) 
Rarely 50.00% (? = 8) 
N 16 
Table 6: Demographics of the participants in our study. 
6.1 Participants and Apparatus 
We recruited 16 participants (5 female, 11 male) aged fve through 
seven through snowball sampling and by posting advertisements 
on online forums (e.g., Twitter, Reddit, and the online communities 
of several colleges). Before the study, we assessed children’s Eng-
lish language profciency using a computer-based assessment (i.e., 
Quick Interactive Language Screener [51]) to ensure that partici-
pants can understand the questions in the conversations, assess-
ment, and usability survey. Table 6 summarizes the participants’ 
demographic information. 
For explanatory material, we selected question and answer pairs 
for four domains: Natural Phenomena, Biology, Physics, and Cul-
tural and Social Science. We chose these domains as they are com-
monly asked by children [58] and are topically diverse helps us test 
CHI ’23, April 23–28, 2023, Hamburg, Germany 
generalizability. For each domain, we selected two QA pairs, one 
for each question type (i.e., “why” and “how”). Participants were 
assigned a total of four questions where they saw one question per 
domain and two questions per question type. 
We compared DAPIE’s interface to a baseline interface with the 
same UI. However, instead of providing interactive conversations, 
the baseline provided the information in the original answer by 
presenting one sentence at a time. After each sentence, the interface 
showed “Okay” as the only option the user could click to respond 
with. Unlike existing real-world voice-based CAs which provide 
lengthy explanations in a single turn, this baseline provides greater 
interactivity and allows the user to consume the information step-
by-step. Thus, we believe this is fair baseline since it provides a 
higher level of interactivity than what is supported in existing voice-
based CAs. Each session lasted about 60 minutes and participants 
were compensated with $50. 
6.2 Study Procedure 
The study was conducted remotely. Children participated in the 
study from their homes and communicated with the researcher 
via a video conferencing tool2. Children frst followed a simple 
tutorial dialogue where they were introduced to DAPIE and the 
baseline, and learned to use the systems by answering a few simple 
questions like “Are you ready?” Then, the children went through 
the explanations for four questions. They interacted with each con-
dition for half of the questions—the order was counterbalanced. 
Each question was from a diferent domain (i.e., Natural Science, 
Biology, Physics, and Social Science). As learning Natural Science 
can afect understanding of Biology and vice versa, we grouped the 
domains such that participants saw questions from Natural Science 
and Biology in one condition, and Physics and Social Science in the 
other—limiting learning efects across conditions. Additionally, par-
ticipants saw one “why” question and one “how” question in each 
condition—the order was counterbalanced. After each question, 
we conducted an assessment that asked about specifc knowledge 
in the explanation. After each condition, we conducted usability 
surveys and semi-structured interviews. After the children com-
pleted the study, we conducted semi-structured interviews with 
their parents regarding their child’s experience with the CAs. The 
child’s screen and their camera video were recorded. The procedure 
was pre-approved by the IRB of the authors’ institution. 
6.3 Measures 
For measures, we evaluated the participants’ understanding of the 
information in the dialogues, their engagement with the dialogue, 
and their perceived usability of the interface. We also qualitatively 
analyzed the interview data. 
6.3.1 Immediate Assessment. To assess children’s understanding 
of concepts from the dialogue, we developed three questions for 
each dialogue. The questions assessed children’s recall and under-
standing of facts introduced in the dialogue. These questions were 
diferent from the explanations embedded in the dialogue and did 
not overlap with the diagnosis questions provided in the dialogues. 
We designed these questions by consulting experts on children’s 
2https://zoom.us/ 
===== PAGE 16 =====
CHI ’23, April 23–28, 2023, Hamburg, Germany 
learning and language development. All the assessment items are 
included in the Supplementary Materials. 
For all of the questions, we frst asked children open-ended 
questions and allowed them to freely formulate their answer. If 
they were unable to provide the correct answer, we provided them 
with two answer options to choose from. Children received a score 
of 2 if they answered correctly without options, a score of 1 if they 
required options to answer correctly, and a score of 0 if they could 
not answer correctly. 
6.3.2 Engagement. The evaluation of engagement was based on 
coders’ assessments of each child’s engagement in terms of three 
behaviors: eye gaze, verbal comments, and nonverbal comments. 
Eye gaze considered instances when participants stared at places 
other than the screen where the explanation was presented, which 
has been used as a negative indicator of engagement in children’s 
book reading [35] and video watching [87]. On the other hand, ver-
bal and nonverbal comments were considered as positive indicators. 
Verbal comments considered when a participant would verbally an-
swer the CA’s question, ask a question about on-topic information, 
or react to agent’s response. These comments could be either to 
their parent or to the agent, although the agent could not under-
stand these. Nonverbal comments included pointing at the screen, 
moving the cursor around, or clicking the interface to re-play the 
CA’s explanation. Two coders observed the study sessions and, for 
each dialogue turn, recorded whether the turn included these en-
gagement behaviors. Then, for each of the behaviors, we calculated 
(??????_? ? _????? _???ℎ _?ℎ?_??ℎ?????)/( ????? _??????_? ? _?????)× 
100. The IRR calculated by Intraclass Correlation for the two coders 
was 0.73, which is considered as substantial [68]. 
6.3.3 Usability. For usability, we used a survey to elicit children’s 
enjoyment on the usage experience, and their perceived trust to-
wards DAPIE and the baseline. We adapted the four questions from 
the Giggle gauge [21] to measure enjoyment, and adapted two 
questions from Richards and Calvert’s survey [69] for measuring 
children’s perceived trust. For all items, children were frst asked 
to indicate whether they agree with a statement (i.e., “yes” or “no”) 
and then asked to clarify the magnitude to which they agree or 
disagree (i.e., “a bit” or “defnitely”), leading to four possible ordi-
nal response: “defnitely no”, “a bit no”, “a bit yes”, and “defnitely 
yes” [87]. Finally, we asked them to compare both CAs for each 
dimension. 
6.3.4 Interview Data. We qualitatively analyzed the video record-
ings of participants’s usage of DAPIE, and the interview data from 
the children and parents. One of the authors iteratively coded the 
data through inductive analysis, and the other authors reviewed 
and verifed the coding results. 
6.4 Results 
Children performed better on the immediate understanding assess-
ment and were more engaged in the dialogues when using DAPIE 
compared to the baseline. To statistically analyze each measure 
under diferent conditions, we frst conducted a Shapiro-Wilk test 
to determine if the data was parametric (P) or non-parametric (NP). 
Then, to compare between conditions, we used a paired t-test (if 
parametric) and a Wilcoxon signed-rank test (if non-parametric). 
Lee et al. 
6.4.1 Immediate Assessment Score Analysis. Out of a maximum 
of 12 points for the understanding assessment, children’s score 
when they used DAPIE (? = 7.43, ?? = 2.57) signifcantly out-
performed scores with the baseline (? = 5.13, ?? = 2.52). The 
diference equates to correctly answering one more question out of 
six questions (? < 0.05, NP). 
We observed that this greater understanding with DAPIE was 
possibly due to how it provided adaptive explanations (i.e., simpli-
fying, defning difcult words, or providing examples). Through 
the system, ffteen children received adaptive explanations more 
than once. We did not ask children whether they understood an 
explanation after they received each adjustment to not infuence 
their understanding. However, we observed that, on average, the 
children went through a whole thread of adjusted explanations at 
least once per dialogue, which might show that children needed 
all the adjustments once per dialogue. We consider that children 
who received adaptive explanations were able to digest the informa-
tion more easily, leading to a better understanding. P14 mentioned, 
“DAPIE is more like my dad or kind teachers who explain again more 
easily when I couldn’t understand”. 
Additionally, we observed that DAPIE questions could encourage 
more active learning. When DAPIE provided diagnosis or elicit 
questions with multiple choices, some of the children kept moving 
their cursors while they thought of an answer (C1, C2, C3, C8), 
and others expressed excitement after getting the correct answer 
(C1, C6, C12). C7 said, “I can focus more to get correct answers. I’m 
happy when I get answers”. This fnding is aligned with prior work 
that argues that meaningful learning occurs when learners think 
about the information presented rather than just passively receiving 
it [11]. 
Furthermore, children generally felt that the language from 
DAPIE was easier to understand than the language from the base-
line. C4, C5, C9, and C14 mentioned that they liked DAPIE more as 
its explanations were “easier”. For example, C9 said, “DAPIE is like 
my friend because words are easier than the other one so it makes me 
more comfortable”. 
6.4.2 Engagement Analysis. By analyzing the participants’ behav-
iors, we observed that DAPIE could promote engagement. Chil-
dren’s gaze distraction when using DAPIE (? = 11.9%, ?? = 0.16) 
was statistically lower than when they used the baseline (? = 
29%, ?? = 0.28, ? < 0.01). Also, participants made verbal comments 
more frequently when using DAPIE (? = 18.7%, ?? = 0.11) than 
when they used the baseline (? = 11.5%, ?? = 0.13), but there 
was no statistical diference (? > 0.05, NP). However, children’s 
non-verbal comments when using DAPIE (? = 11%, ?? = 0.12) 
were statistically lower than with the baseline (? = 18.36%, ?? = 
0.19, ? < 0.05). In addition to these behaviors, we also analyzed 
overall interaction time and observed that children used DAPIE 
for longer (? = 7.03 ???????, ?? = 3.03) than the baseline (? = 
2.80 ???????, ?? = 1.33). 
Fifteen children chose to listen to the explanation on detailed 
units when guiding questions were given. Although this could make 
the dialogues longer, the children focused on the explanations and 
did not blindly skip or ignore these dialogue turns. Thus, with 
DAPIE, participants saw an average of three times more turns 
(20) than with the baseline (7) while also being more engaged. 
===== PAGE 17 =====
DAPIE: Interactive Dialogues for Answering Children’s Why and How Qestions CHI ’23, April 23–28, 2023, Hamburg, Germany 
Figure 10: Results of engagement and usability analysis. **, *, and ns indicate signifcance of ? < 0.01, ? < 0.05, and ? > 0.05, 
respectively. 
Moreover, when DAPIE provided diagnosis and guiding questions, 
some participants reacted with a smile (C3, C6, C12, C13) or said 
their answer out loud while also providing rationales (C1, C6, C14), 
showing their engagement and curiosity. Thus, children tended 
to be more engaged in the interactive dialogue, which allowed 
the child to decide whether they wanted more details or not. This 
fnding aligns with prior work that showed granting agency to a 
child can increase engagement in an activity [57]. 
For gaze distraction, we observed that it usually occurred when 
the child wanted to say something to their parents or when they 
could not concentrate on the dialogue (e.g., distracted by surround-
ing noises or lost interest). With DAPIE, we observed that the 
former happened more frequently. Several of the children looked at 
their parents to explain their rationale, boast about being correct, 
and talk about other related topics. However, with the baseline, we 
observed more of the latter behavior where some children looked 
at other things while the system was talking and clicked the “Okay” 
button as soon as it was displayed. 
6.4.3 Usability Analysis. Overall, the children felt that the dia-
logues from DAPIE were more enjoyable and trustworthy than the 
baseline’s (Fig. 10). In terms of enjoyment, children felt that DAPIE 
was signifcantly more enjoyable and interactive. They expressed 
that they would like to use DAPIE again (? = 3.38, ?? = 1.05) sig-
nifcantly more than the baseline (? = 2.31, ?? = 1.10, ? < 0.05). In 
terms of trust, children felt DAPIE was signifcantly a better teacher 
(? = 3.69, ?? = 0.58) than the baseline (? = 2.75, ?? = 1.15, ? < 
0.05). Children also felt that they learned new things with DAPIE 
(? = 0.07) and that the system was more trustworthy (? = 0.60), 
but these diferences were not signifcant. 
Children noted DAPIE’s easier language, questions and correc-
tions, and various explanations as reasons for their positive reac-
tions. For example, C5 said “DAPIE is a good teacher. It’s easier, and 
it makes me understand new information”. C6 mentioned that they 
wanted to use DAPIE again because it provided “a lot of stories”, 
and C9 felt he learned new things from the system because it pro-
vided more detailed information, which he wanted. While most 
children liked the interactive experience, C12 noted that the extra 
efort involved in answering and clicking could be burdensome. 
Regarding trustworthiness, which showed the smallest difer-
ence between the two conditions, children generally believed that 
both systems were trustworthy since they both provided new infor-
mation, which made the systems appear smart. However, several 
children commented that DAPIE seemed smarter because it acted 
like a teacher—e.g., helping them understand, correcting their an-
swers, providing questions. On the other hand, some children also 
perceived the baseline as more trustworthy and intelligent since it 
talked in longer sentences. 
6.4.4 Parents’ Perception. In their interviews, parents mentioned 
that DAPIE was more interactive and provided explanations that 
were easier to digest, which aligned with their children’s comments. 
Also, parents were surprised that their children could focus on 
longer dialogues and expressed that this was due to the interactivity. 
Others mentioned that, by watching how their children enjoyed 
interacting with DAPIE, they also learned about how they should 
interact with their child. 
Some parents emphasized the benefts of the adaptive explana-
tion provided by DAPIE. They explained how the system acted 
similarly to how parents or teachers might adapt explanations for 
their children. For example, parents mentioned that the questions 
provided by DAPIE were similar to the questions they wanted to 
give their child when they interacted with the baseline. P14 said, 
“When DAPIE explained, I wanted to ask whether my child knows the 
meaning of these words like “experts” and “product, ” but [the system] 
asked these questions to my daughter, so I like it.” 
===== PAGE 18 =====
CHI ’23, April 23–28, 2023, Hamburg, Germany 
Parents emphasized the benefts of DAPIE’s more accessible ex-
planations and its correction feedback, and related this to their own 
challenges in delivering scientifc information. They mentioned 
that explaining science to their children is challenging as it is dif-
cult to understand the information and to transform it into simpler 
expressions (P9, P11, P12, P13). For example, P9 said, “My son asks 
me these questions quite frequently, but I couldn’t always know the 
answers, so I googled the question to get information and change it 
in a way that my child could understand. This process is challenging, 
so sometimes I can’t care about whether my son understands or not. ” 
Moreover, P8, P14, and P16 said that they were able to learn about 
new information from DAPIE, and that interacting with DAPIE 
could serve as a bonding activity for parents and children. P8 men-
tioned, “It reminded me of what I learned in school. Interestingly, we 
can learn together”. However, some parents also mentioned that it 
was challenging to detect AI-related errors in the turns generated 
by DAPIE. In fact, several parents were unable to recognize that the 
dialogues were generated by an AI model at frst, and thus failed to 
recognize any signifcant errors in the explanations. 
7 DISCUSSION 
In this section, we discuss the potential of AI-based interactive 
dialogues for children and parents, how our approach could en-
rich information understanding for user groups beyond children, 
implications for dialogue design, and limitations and future work. 
7.1 AI-based Interactive Dialogues for Children 
and Parents 
In a real-life setting, DAPIE can be benefcial for answering chil-
dren’s questions when parents are unable or unavailable. Parents 
may struggle to understand the information needed to answer chil-
dren’s diverse and unpredictable questions [61] and, as expressed 
by parents in our study, they must dedicate signifcant efort to 
make the information comprehensible for their children. Through 
our system, children can satisfy their curiosity by accessing and 
consuming explanations on the internet, whenever they need them, 
without parents’ efort. 
Furthermore, we believe that parents and DAPIE can collab-
orate and combine their expertise to produce more meaningful 
experiences for their children: parents as experts in interacting 
with their children, and DAPIE as an expert on the domain. DAPIE 
can easily retrieve an explanation, simplify it, and design initial 
interventions—time-consuming and burdensome tasks for parents. 
By handing of this burden, parents can then focus on their child 
by observing how they interact with the system and noticing any 
difculties. Future extensions of DAPIE could allow the parent to 
mediate in the dialogue and ofer this knowledge to DAPIE, which 
it can then use to generate more personalized interventions. This 
presents an efective case of human-AI collaboration that leverages 
the respective strengths of the human and the AI. 
7.2 AI Errors: Propagate Outputs but Intercept 
Errors 
While children were generally positive about generated turns, our 
AI-based pipeline could occasionally produce unsatisfactory or non-
sensical turns due to its inability to propagate outputs across turns. 
Lee et al. 
As turns are considered separately when generating questions, the 
pipeline could lose context about the dialogue and generate confus-
ing questions. In one dialogue, a sentence used the pronoun “these” 
to refer to an entity in the previous turn, and the pipeline generated 
a diagnosis question with “these”, “that” and “those” as answer op-
tions. This question frustrated child participants as the options were 
nonsensical but, if they did not choose “these”, they were told that 
they were wrong. Further, as the pipeline does not consider what 
was provided in prior turns, it could generate similar questions 
across multiple turns. For example, one dialogue explained aspects 
of gravity in each turn and provided several diagnosis questions 
where the answer was “gravity”—causing children to feel tired and 
bored. While these failure cases indicate that the pipeline should 
propagate information across turns, we observed that propagating 
AI’s outputs could lead to error propagation. Thus, to prevent er-
rors from propagation, the pipeline must also incorporate modules 
to detect, flter and/or correct failed generations before they are 
propagated. Additionally, the system can include simple feedback 
buttons (e.g., “bored”, “bot was not smart”) for children to explicitly 
express intent, and for the system to mitigate the cost of errors by 
providing other explanations. 
7.3 Beyond Young Children and Beyond 
Question Answering 
Although our system targets young children (ages fve to seven), we 
believe that our guidelines and the general structure of our pipeline 
can generalize to support older children and even adults. As learning 
theory [70, 82] suggests reducing support (i.e., fading) according 
to children’s ability, the pipeline can be adjusted to make more 
challenging and cognitively engaging dialogues for older children. 
For example, the pipeline could provide longer explanations per 
turn or simplify less to help children learn new terms. Also, instead 
of the recall-based diagnosis questions, which bored some children 
in our study, the pipeline could generate self-explanation questions 
which challenge the child to explain what they have just learned. 
A signifcant merit of our computational pipeline is that it main-
tains the core information in the original answer, but wraps it with 
interactivity. Beyond supporting children and question answering, 
this functionality can be extended to enable a new form of reading 
support. In learning contexts, our pipeline could be extended to as-
sist in the active reading of documents (e.g., textbooks) by creating 
document-based dialogue turns that guide readers to other relevant 
parts of the document, diagnose their understanding, and provide 
adaptive interventions. Whereas current document-based QA mod-
els (e.g., Qasper [18]) focus on facilitating information-seeking, 
this approach could generate dialogues that focus on cognitively 
engaging users in the reading activity. 
7.4 Limitations and Future Work 
As our pipeline generates dialogues while retaining core informa-
tion, parents in our study said that they rarely noticed any harms or 
dangers in the dialogues. However, LLMs can exhibit biases [3] and 
our pipeline could propagate or even amplify various biases (e.g., 
gender, race, and culture). For these reasons, safeguards are needed 
to prevent negative impact on children. For example, our system 
could apply NLP techniques to recognize and mitigate biases [77] or, 
===== PAGE 19 =====
DAPIE: Interactive Dialogues for Answering Children’s Why and How Qestions CHI ’23, April 23–28, 2023, Hamburg, Germany 
instead of generating on-the-fy, allow parents to verify dialogues 
before their children can access them. 
Our study had several limitations. First, the study compared 
our full system to a baseline that provides sentences one-by-one. 
We adopted this design to evaluate the comprehensive experience 
supported by our system, but this makes it difcult to discern the 
efect of each component (e.g., simplifcation, questions). Second, 
as we assessed children’s understanding immediately after each 
dialogue, the efect of the system on children’s long-term retention 
is unclear. Third, although our target scenario is for when children 
ask “why” and “how” questions, we did not allow children in our 
study to ask the questions to strictly control the experiment design. 
Future work could explore how children ask questions with our 
system through a deployment study. Finally, our participant pool 
was skewed regarding race, age, and usage of voice assistants. Fu-
ture work could conduct studies with younger children and more 
diverse demographics. 
8 CONCLUSION 
This work proposes design guidelines for creating interactive dia-
logues that help children understand answers to their “why” and 
“how” questions. Applying these guidelines, we developed DAPIE, 
a novel AI-based system that automatically transforms existing 
long-form answers from online sources into interactive dialogues. 
Through a technical evaluation and a user study, we found that 
DAPIE shows reliable performance in generating interactive dia-
logues, and these dialogues are efective in promoting children’s 
understanding and enjoyment. With recent advances in genera-
tive AI models, we hope that DAPIE paves the way for providing 
children with more accessible and engaging forms to learn and 
consume information. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 
This work was supported by KAIST-NAVER Hypercreative AI Cen-
ter. The authors would like to thank our participants for their pos-
itive engagement during the studies and the reviewers as their 
feedback helped us improve our paper. Finally, we also thank Dong-
sun Yim for the valuable feedback and advice. 
REFERENCES 
[1] Raviteja Anantha, Svitlana Vakulenko, Zhucheng Tu, Shayne Longpre, Stephen 
Pulman, and Srinivas Chappidi. 2021. Open-Domain Question Answering Goes 
Conversational via Question Rewriting. In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference 
of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: 
Human Language Technologies. 520–534. 
[2] David Paul Ausubel. 2012. The acquisition and retention of knowledge: A cognitive 
view. Springer Science & Business Media. 
[3] Rishi Bommasani, Drew A Hudson, Ehsan Adeli, Russ Altman, Simran Arora, 
Sydney von Arx, Michael S Bernstein, Jeannette Bohg, Antoine Bosselut, Emma 
Brunskill, et al. 2021. On the opportunities and risks of foundation models. arXiv 
preprint arXiv:2108.07258 (2021). 
[4] Elizabeth Baraf Bonawitz and Tania Lombrozo. 2012. Occam’s rattle: children’s 
use of simplicity and probability to constrain inference. Developmental psychology 
48, 4 (2012), 1156. 
[5] Tom B. Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared Kaplan, 
Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda 
Askell, Sandhini Agarwal, Ariel Herbert-Voss, Gretchen Krueger, Tom Henighan, 
Rewon Child, Aditya Ramesh, Daniel M. Ziegler, Jefrey Wu, Clemens Winter, 
Christopher Hesse, Mark Chen, Eric Sigler, Mateusz Litwin, Scott Gray, Benjamin 
Chess, Jack Clark, Christopher Berner, Sam McCandlish, Alec Radford, Ilya 
Sutskever, and Dario Amodei. 2020. Language Models are Few-Shot Learners. 
https://doi.org/10.48550/ARXIV.2005.14165 
[6] Bill Byrne, Karthik Krishnamoorthi, Chinnadhurai Sankar, Arvind Neelakantan, 
Daniel Duckworth, Semih Yavuz, Ben Goodrich, Amit Dubey, Andy Cedilnik, 
and Kyu-Young Kim. 2019. Taskmaster-1: Toward a realistic and diverse dialog 
dataset. arXiv preprint arXiv:1909.05358 (2019). 
[7] Sonia Q. Cabell, Laura M. Justice, Anita S. McGinty, Jamie DeCoster, and Lind-
say D. Forston. 2015. Teacher–child conversations in preschool classrooms: 
Contributions to children’s vocabulary development. Early Childhood Research 
Quarterly 30 (2015), 80–92. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecresq.2014.09.004 
[8] William Cai, Hao Sheng, and Sharad Goel. 2020. MathBot: A Personalized Con-
versational Agent for Learning Math. 
[9] Yi Cheng, Kate Yen, Yeqi Chen, Sijin Chen, and Alexis Hiniker. 2018. Why Doesn’t 
It Work? Voice-Driven Interfaces and Young Children’s Communication Repair 
Strategies. In Proceedings of the 17th ACM Conference on Interaction Design and 
Children (Trondheim, Norway) (IDC ’18). Association for Computing Machinery, 
New York, NY, USA, 337–348. https://doi.org/10.1145/3202185.3202749 
[10] Michelene T.H. Chi, Miriam Bassok, Matthew W. Lewis, Peter Reimann, and 
Robert Glaser. 1989. Self-explanations: How students study and use examples 
in learning to solve problems. Cognitive Science 13, 2 (1989), 145–182. https: 
//doi.org/10.1016/0364-0213(89)90002-5 
[11] Michelene T. H. Chi and Ruth Wylie. 2014. The ICAP Framework: Link-
ing Cognitive Engagement to Active Learning Outcomes. Educational Psy-
chologist 49, 4 (2014), 219–243. https://doi.org/10.1080/00461520.2014.965823 
arXiv:https://doi.org/10.1080/00461520.2014.965823 
[12] Eunsol Choi, He He, Mohit Iyyer, Mark Yatskar, Wen-tau Yih, Yejin Choi, Percy 
Liang, and Luke Zettlemoyer. 2018. QuAC: Question Answering in Context. In 
Proceedings of the 2018 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language 
Processing. Association for Computational Linguistics, Brussels, Belgium, 2174– 
2184. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/D18-1241 
[13] Michelle M Chouinard, Paul L Harris, and Michael P Maratsos. 2007. Children’s 
questions: A mechanism for cognitive development. Monographs of the society 
for research in child development (2007), i–129. 
[14] Kathleen H. Corriveau and Katelyn E. Kurkul. 2014. "Why Does Rain Fall?": 
Children Prefer to Learn From an Informant Who Uses Noncircular Explanations. 
Child Development 85, 5 (2014), 1827–1835. http://www.jstor.org/stable/24033022 
[15] Catherine Crain-Thoreson, Michael P Dahlin, and Terris A Powell. 2001. Parent-
child interaction in three conversational contexts: Variations in style and strategy. 
New directions for child and adolescent development 2001, 92 (2001), 23–38. https: 
//doi.org/10.1002/cd.13 
[16] Zhuyun Dai, Arun Tejasvi Chaganty, Vincent Zhao, Aida Amini, Mike Green, 
Qazi Rashid, and Kelvin Guu. 2022. Dialog Inpainting: Turning Documents to 
Dialogs. In International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML). PMLR. 
[17] Judith H. Danovitch, Candice M. Mills, Kaitlin R. Sands, and Allison J. Williams. 
2021. Mind the gap: How incomplete explanations infuence children’s interest 
and learning behaviors. Cognitive Psychology 130 (2021), 101421. https://doi. 
org/10.1016/j.cogpsych.2021.101421 
[18] Pradeep Dasigi, Kyle Lo, Iz Beltagy, Arman Cohan, Noah A. Smith, and Matt Gard-
ner. 2021. A Dataset of Information-Seeking Questions and Answers Anchored 
in Research Papers. In NAACL. 
[19] Jan De Belder and Marie-Francine Moens. 2010. Text simplifcation for children. 
(01 2010). 
[20] Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. 2018. Bert: 
Pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding. arXiv 
preprint arXiv:1810.04805 (2018). 
[21] Grifn Dietz, Zachary Pease, Brenna McNally, and Elizabeth Foss. 2020. Giggle 
Gauge: A Self-Report Instrument for Evaluating Children’s Engagement with 
Technology. In Proceedings of the Interaction Design and Children Conference 
(London, United Kingdom) (IDC ’20). Association for Computing Machinery, New 
York, NY, USA, 614–623. https://doi.org/10.1145/3392063.3394393 
[22] Stefania Druga, Randi Williams, Cynthia Breazeal, and Mitchel Resnick. 2017. 
"Hey Google is It OK If I Eat You?": Initial Explorations in Child-Agent Interaction. 
In Proceedings of the 2017 Conference on Interaction Design and Children (Stanford, 
California, USA) (IDC ’17). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, 
USA, 595–600. https://doi.org/10.1145/3078072.3084330 
[23] Gerald G. Dufy, Laura R. Roehler, Michael S. Meloth, and Linda G. Vavrus. 1986. 
Conceptualizing instructional explanation. Teaching and Teacher Education 2, 3 
(1986), 197–214. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0742-051X(86)80002-6 
[24] Mary Evans, Shelley Moretti, Deborah Shaw, and Maureen Fox. 2003. Parent 
Scafolding in Children’s Oral Reading. Early Education and Development - EARLY 
EDUC DEV 14 (07 2003), 363–388. https://doi.org/10.1207/s15566935eed1403_5 
[25] Angela Fan, Yacine Jernite, Ethan Perez, David Grangier, Jason Weston, and 
Michael Auli. 2019. ELI5: Long Form Question Answering. In Proceedings of the 
57th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics. Association 
for Computational Linguistics, Florence, Italy, 3558–3567. https://doi.org/10. 
18653/v1/P19-1346 
[26] Brandy N. Frazier, Susan A. Gelman, and Henry M. Wellman. 2009. Preschoolers’ 
Search for Explanatory Information within Adult: Child Conversation. Child 
Development 80, 6 (2009), 1592–1611. http://www.jstor.org/stable/25592097 
===== PAGE 20 =====
CHI ’23, April 23–28, 2023, Hamburg, Germany 
[27] Brandy N Frazier, Susan A Gelman, and Henry M Wellman. 2016. Young chil-
dren prefer and remember satisfying explanations. Journal of Cognition and 
Development 17, 5 (2016), 718–736. 
[28] Radhika Garg, Hua Cui, Spencer Seligson, Bo Zhang, Martin Porcheron, Leigh 
Clark, Benjamin R. Cowan, and Erin Beneteau. 2022. The Last Decade of HCI 
Research on Children and Voice-Based Conversational Agents. In Proceedings of 
the 2022 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (New Orleans, 
LA, USA) (CHI ’22). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 
Article 149, 19 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3491102.3502016 
[29] Susan A Gelman. 1988. The development of induction within natural kind and 
artifact categories. Cognitive Psychology 20, 1 (1988), 65–95. https://doi.org/10. 
1016/0010-0285(88)90025-4 
[30] Usha Goswami. 2001. Analogical Reasoning in Children. 437 – 470. 
[31] Graeme S. Halford. 2009. Children’s understanding: The development of mental 
models. Erlbaum. 
[32] Paul L Harris. 2012. Trusting what you’re told: How children learn from others. 
Harvard University Press. 
[33] Jiangbo Hu, Camilla Gordon, Ning Yang, and Yonggang Ren. 2020. “Once Upon 
A Styoar”: A Science Education Program Based on Personifcation Storytelling in 
Promoting Preschool Children’s Understanding of Astronomy Concepts. Early 
Education and Development 32 (05 2020), 1–19. https://doi.org/10.1080/10409289. 
2020.1759011 
[34] Kayoko Inagaki and Giyoo Hatano. 1987. Young Children’s Spontaneous Per-
sonifcation as Analogy. Child Development 58, 4 (1987), 1013–1020. http: 
//www.jstor.org/stable/1130542 
[35] Joan N Kaderavek, Ying Guo, and Laura M Justice. 2014. Validity of the children’s 
orientation to book reading rating scale. Journal of Research in Reading 37, 2 
(2014), 159–178. 
[36] Vladimir Karpukhin, Barlas Oguz, Sewon Min, Patrick Lewis, Ledell Wu, Sergey 
Edunov, Danqi Chen, and Wen-tau Yih. 2020. Dense Passage Retrieval for Open-
Domain Question Answering. In Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical 
Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP). 6769–6781. 
[37] Deborah Kelemen. 2019. The Magic of Mechanism: Explanation-Based Instruction 
on Counterintuitive Concepts in Early Childhood. Perspectives on Psychological 
Science 14 (04 2019), 174569161982701. https://doi.org/10.1177/1745691619827011 
[38] James Kennedy, Séverin Lemaignan, Caroline Montassier, Pauline Lavalade, Ba-
har Irfan, Fotios Papadopoulos, Emmanuel Senft, and Tony Belpaeme. 2017. 
Child Speech Recognition in Human-Robot Interaction: Evaluations and Rec-
ommendations. In Proceedings of the 2017 ACM/IEEE International Conference on 
Human-Robot Interaction (Vienna, Austria) (HRI ’17). Association for Computing 
Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 82–90. https://doi.org/10.1145/2909824.3020229 
[39] Yea-Seul Kim, Jessica Hullman, Matthew Burgess, and Eytan Adar. 2016. Sim-
pleScience: Lexical Simplifcation of Scientifc Terminology. In Proceedings of 
the 2016 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing. As-
sociation for Computational Linguistics, Austin, Texas, 1066–1071. https: 
//doi.org/10.18653/v1/D16-1114 
[40] Alison King. 1994. Guiding knowledge construction in the classroom: Efects of 
teaching children how to question and how to explain. American educational 
research journal 31, 2 (1994), 338–368. 
[41] Christina Krist, Christina V. Schwarz, and Brian J. Reiser. 2019. Identifying 
Essential Epistemic Heuristics for Guiding Mechanistic Reasoning in Science 
Learning. Journal of the Learning Sciences 28, 2 (2019), 160–205. https://doi.org/10. 
1080/10508406.2018.1510404 arXiv:https://doi.org/10.1080/10508406.2018.1510404 
[42] Christoph Kulgemeyer. 2018. Towards a framework for efective in-
structional explanations in science teaching. Studies in Science Educa-
tion 54, 2 (2018), 109–139. https://doi.org/10.1080/03057267.2018.1598054 
arXiv:https://doi.org/10.1080/03057267.2018.1598054 
[43] Katelyn E Kurkul, Eleanor Castine, Kathryn Leech, and Kathleen H Corriveau. 
2021. How does a switch work? The relation between adult mechanistic language 
and children’s learning. Journal of Applied Developmental Psychology 72 (2021), 
101221. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.appdev.2020.101221 
[44] Katelyn E Kurkul and Kathleen H Corriveau. 2018. Question, explanation, follow-
up: A mechanism for learning from others? Child Development 89, 1 (2018), 
280–294. 
[45] Tom Kwiatkowski, Jennimaria Palomaki, Olivia Redfeld, Michael Collins, Ankur 
Parikh, Chris Alberti, Danielle Epstein, Illia Polosukhin, Jacob Devlin, Kenton Lee, 
Kristina Toutanova, Llion Jones, Matthew Kelcey, Ming-Wei Chang, Andrew M. 
Dai, Jakob Uszkoreit, Quoc Le, and Slav Petrov. 2019. Natural Questions: A 
Benchmark for Question Answering Research. Transactions of the Association for 
Computational Linguistics 7 (2019), 452–466. https://doi.org/10.1162/tacl_a_00276 
[46] Yoonjoo Lee, John Joon Young Chung, Tae Soo Kim, Jean Y Song, and Juho 
Kim. 2022. Promptiverse: Scalable Generation of Scafolding Prompts Through 
Human-AI Hybrid Knowledge Graph Annotation. In Proceedings of the 2022 CHI 
Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (New Orleans, LA, USA) 
(CHI ’22). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, Article 96, 
18 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3491102.3502087 
[47] Cristine H Legare. 2014. The contributions of explanation and exploration to 
children’s scientifc reasoning. Child Development Perspectives 8, 2 (2014), 101–106. 
Lee et al. 
https://doi.org/10.1111/cdep.12070 
[48] Cristine H Legare and Tania Lombrozo. 2014. Selective efects of explanation on 
learning during early childhood. Journal of experimental child psychology 126 
(2014), 198–212. 
[49] Gaea Leinhardt, Kevin Crowley, and Karen Knutson. 2015. Building islands of 
expertise in everyday family activity. Routledge. 
[50] Gaea Leinhardt and Michael Steele. 2005. Seeing the Complexity of Standing 
to the Side: Instructional Dialogues. Cognition and Instruction - COGNITION 
INSTRUCT 23 (03 2005), 87–163. https://doi.org/10.1207/s1532690xci2301_4 
[51] Dani Levine, Amy Pace, Rufan Luo, Kathy Hirsh-Pasek, Roberta Michnick 
Golinkof, Jill de Villiers, Aquiles Iglesias, and Mary Sweig Wilson. 2020. Evaluat-
ing socioeconomic gaps in preschoolers’ vocabulary, syntax and language process 
skills with the Quick Interactive Language Screener (QUILS). Early Childhood 
Research Quarterly 50 (2020), 114–128. 
[52] Mike Lewis, Yinhan Liu, Naman Goyal, Marjan Ghazvininejad, Abdelrahman 
Mohamed, Omer Levy, Veselin Stoyanov, and Luke Zettlemoyer. 2020. BART: 
Denoising Sequence-to-Sequence Pre-training for Natural Language Generation, 
Translation, and Comprehension. In Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of 
the Association for Computational Linguistics. 7871–7880. 
[53] Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, 
Naman Goyal, Heinrich Küttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim Rocktäschel, 
et al. 2020. Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-intensive nlp tasks. 
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 33 (2020), 9459–9474. 
[54] Margaret Li, Jason Weston, and Stephen Roller. 2019. ACUTE-EVAL: Improved 
Dialogue Evaluation with Optimized Questions and Multi-turn Comparisons. 
https://doi.org/10.48550/ARXIV.1909.03087 
[55] Yanran Li, Hui Su, Xiaoyu Shen, Wenjie Li, Ziqiang Cao, and Shuzi Niu. 2017. 
Dailydialog: A manually labelled multi-turn dialogue dataset. arXiv preprint 
arXiv:1710.03957 (2017). 
[56] Paul Light and George Butterworth. 2017. Chapter 7. Desituating cognition through 
the construction of conceptual knowledge. Routledge. 
[57] Mike E.U. Ligthart, Mark A. Neerincx, and Koen V. Hindriks. 2020. Design 
Patterns for an Interactive Storytelling Robot to Support Children’s Engagement 
and Agency. In Proceedings of the 2020 ACM/IEEE International Conference on 
Human-Robot Interaction (Cambridge, United Kingdom) (HRI ’20). Association for 
Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 409–418. https://doi.org/10.1145/ 
3319502.3374826 
[58] Silvia B. Lovato, Anne Marie Piper, and Ellen A. Wartella. 2019. Hey Google, 
Do Unicorns Exist? Conversational Agents as a Path to Answers to Children’s 
Questions. In Proceedings of the 18th ACM International Conference on Interaction 
Design and Children (Boise, ID, USA) (IDC ’19). Association for Computing Ma-
chinery, New York, NY, USA, 301–313. https://doi.org/10.1145/3311927.3323150 
[59] Louis Martin, Angela Fan, Éric de la Clergerie, Antoine Bordes, and Benoît Sagot. 
2021. MUSS: Multilingual Unsupervised Sentence Simplifcation by Mining 
Paraphrases. arXiv preprint arXiv:2005.00352 (2021). 
[60] Joshua Maynez, Shashi Narayan, Bernd Bohnet, and Ryan McDonald. 2020. 
On faithfulness and factuality in abstractive summarization. arXiv preprint 
arXiv:2005.00661 (2020). 
[61] Candice M. Mills, Judith. H. Danovitch, Victoria N. Mugambi, Kaitlin R. 
Sands, and Candice Pattisapu Fox. 2022. “Why do dogs pant?”: Character-
istics of parental explanations about science predict children’s knowledge. 
Child Development 93, 2 (2022), 326–340. https://doi.org/10.1111/cdev.13681 
arXiv:https://srcd.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/pdf/10.1111/cdev.13681 
[62] Candice M Mills, Kaitlin R Sands, Sydney P Rowles, and Ian L Campbell. 2019. 
“I want to know more!”: Children are sensitive to explanation quality when 
exploring new information. Cognitive Science 43, 1 (2019), e12706. 
[63] Reiichiro Nakano, Jacob Hilton, Suchir Balaji, Jef Wu, Long Ouyang, Christina 
Kim, Christopher Hesse, Shantanu Jain, Vineet Kosaraju, William Saunders, Xu 
Jiang, Karl Cobbe, Tyna Eloundou, Gretchen Krueger, Kevin Button, Matthew 
Knight, Benjamin Chess, and John Schulman. 2021. WebGPT: Browser-
assisted question-answering with human feedback. CoRR abs/2112.09332 (2021). 
arXiv:2112.09332 https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.09332 
[64] Nielsen. 2018. (Smart) speaking my language: Despite their vast capabilities, 
smart speakers are all about the music. 
[65] Colin Rafel, Noam Shazeer, Adam Roberts, Katherine Lee, Sharan Narang, 
Michael Matena, Yanqi Zhou, Wei Li, and Peter J. Liu. 2020. Exploring the Limits 
of Transfer Learning with a Unifed Text-to-Text Transformer. Journal of Machine 
Learning Research 21, 140 (2020), 1–67. http://jmlr.org/papers/v21/20-074.html 
[66] Pranav Rajpurkar, Jian Zhang, Konstantin Lopyrev, and Percy Liang. 2016. 
SQuAD: 100,000+ Questions for Machine Comprehension of Text. In Proceed-
ings of the 2016 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing. 
2383–2392. 
[67] Siva Reddy, Danqi Chen, and Christopher D. Manning. 2019. CoQA: A Con-
versational Question Answering Challenge. Transactions of the Association for 
Computational Linguistics 7 (2019), 249–266. https://doi.org/10.1162/tacl_a_00266 
[68] Darrel A Regier, William E Narrow, Diana E Clarke, Helena C Kraemer, S Janet 
Kuramoto, Emily A Kuhl, and David J Kupfer. 2013. DSM-5 feld trials in the 
United States and Canada, Part II: test-retest reliability of selected categorical 
===== PAGE 21 =====
DAPIE: Interactive Dialogues for Answering Children’s Why and How Qestions 
diagnoses. American journal of psychiatry 170, 1 (2013), 59–70. 
[69] Melissa N. Richards and Sandra L. Calvert. 2017. Measuring young U.S. children’s 
parasocial relationships: toward the creation of a child self-report survey. Journal 
of Children and Media 11, 2 (2017), 229–240. https://doi.org/10.1080/17482798. 
2017.1304969 arXiv:https://doi.org/10.1080/17482798.2017.1304969 
[70] Laura R Roehler and Danise J Cantlon. 1997. Scafolding: A powerful tool in 
social constructivist classrooms. (1997). 
[71] Rod D. Roscoe and Michelene T. H. Chi. 2007. Understanding Tutor Learning: 
Knowledge-Building and Knowledge-Telling in Peer Tutors’ Explanations and 
Questions. Review of Educational Research 77, 4 (2007), 534–574. https://doi.org/ 
10.3102/0034654307309920 arXiv:https://doi.org/10.3102/0034654307309920 
[72] Sherry Ruan, Liwei Jiang, Justin Xu, Bryce Joe-Kun Tham, Zhengneng Qiu, 
Yeshuang Zhu, Elizabeth L. Murnane, Emma Brunskill, and James A. Landay. 
2019. QuizBot: A Dialogue-Based Adaptive Learning System for Factual Knowledge. 
Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 1–13. https://doi. 
org/10.1145/3290605.3300587 
[73] Rosemary Russ, Rachel Scherr, David Hammer, and Jamie Mikeska. 2008. Rec-
ognizing mechanistic reasoning in student scientifc inquiry: A framework for 
discourse analysis developed from philosophy of science. Science Education 92 
(05 2008), 499 – 525. https://doi.org/10.1002/sce.20264 
[74] Alex Sciuto, Arnita Saini, Jodi Forlizzi, and Jason I. Hong. 2018. "Hey Alexa, 
What’s Up?": A Mixed-Methods Studies of In-Home Conversational Agent Usage. 
In Proceedings of the 2018 Designing Interactive Systems Conference (Hong Kong, 
China) (DIS ’18). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 
857–868. https://doi.org/10.1145/3196709.3196772 
[75] Catherine Snow. 1983. Literacy and language: Relationships during the preschool 
years. Harvard educational review 53, 2 (1983), 165–189. 
[76] Dan Su, Xiaoguang Li, Jindi Zhang, Lifeng Shang, Xin Jiang, Qun Liu, and Pascale 
Fung. 2022. Read before Generate! Faithful Long Form Question Answering with 
Machine Reading. https://doi.org/10.48550/ARXIV.2203.00343 
[77] Tony Sun, Andrew Gaut, Shirlyn Tang, Yuxin Huang, Mai ElSherief, Jieyu Zhao, 
Diba Mirza, Elizabeth Belding, Kai-Wei Chang, and William Yang Wang. 2019. 
Mitigating Gender Bias in Natural Language Processing: Literature Review. In 
Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational 
Linguistics. Association for Computational Linguistics, Florence, Italy, 1630–1640. 
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/P19-1159 
[78] Anuj Tewari and John Canny. 2014. What Did Spot Hide? A Question-Answering 
Game for Preschool Children. In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human 
Factors in Computing Systems (Toronto, Ontario, Canada) (CHI ’14). Association 
for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 1807–1816. https://doi.org/10. 
1145/2556288.2557205 
[79] Barbara Tizard and Martin Hughes. 2008. Young children learning. John Wiley & 
Sons. 
CHI ’23, April 23–28, 2023, Hamburg, Germany 
[80] Araceli Valle and Maureen Callanan. 2006. Similarity Comparisons and Relational 
Analogies in Parent-Child Conversations About Science Topics. Merrill-Palmer 
Quarterly 52 (01 2006), 96–124. https://doi.org/10.1353/mpq.2006.0009 
[81] Stella Vosniadou and Marlene Schommer. 1988. Explanatory Analogies Can Help 
Children Acquire Information from Expository Text. Technical Report No. 460. 
[82] Lev Semenovich Vygotsky and Michael Cole. 1978. Mind in society: Development 
of higher psychological processes. Harvard university press. 
[83] Shufan Wang, Fangyuan Xu, Laure Thompson, Eunsol Choi, and Mohit Iyyer. 2022. 
Modeling Exemplifcation in Long-form Question Answering via Retrieval. In 
Proceedings of the 2022 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association 
for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies. Association for 
Computational Linguistics, Seattle, United States, 2079–2092. https://doi.org/10. 
18653/v1/2022.naacl-main.151 
[84] Rainer Winkler, Sebastian Hobert, Antti Salovaara, Matthias Söllner, and 
Jan Marco Leimeister. 2020. Sara, the Lecturer: Improving Learning in Online Edu-
cation with a Scafolding-Based Conversational Agent. Association for Computing 
Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 1–14. https://doi.org/10.1145/3313831.3376781 
[85] Lee Xiong, Chenyan Xiong, Ye Li, Kwok-Fung Tang, Jialin Liu, Paul Bennett, 
Junaid Ahmed, and Arnold Overwijk. 2020. Approximate nearest neighbor nega-
tive contrastive learning for dense text retrieval. arXiv preprint arXiv:2007.00808 
(2020). 
[86] Fangyuan Xu, Junyi Jessy Li, and Eunsol Choi. 2022. How Do We Answer Complex 
Questions: Discourse Structure of Long-form Answers. In Proceedings of the 60th 
Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long 
Papers). Association for Computational Linguistics, Dublin, Ireland, 3556–3572. 
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2022.acl-long.249 
[87] Ying Xu, Valery Vigil, Andres S. Bustamante, and Mark Warschauer. 2022. 
“Elinor’s Talking to Me!”:Integrating Conversational AI into Children’s Nar-
rative Science Programming. In Proceedings of the 2022 CHI Conference on Hu-
man Factors in Computing Systems (New Orleans, LA, USA) (CHI ’22). Asso-
ciation for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, Article 166, 16 pages. 
https://doi.org/10.1145/3491102.3502050 
[88] Ying Xu and Mark Warschauer. 2020. A Content Analysis of Voice-Based Apps 
on the Market for Early Literacy Development. In Proceedings of the Interaction 
Design and Children Conference (London, United Kingdom) (IDC ’20). Association 
for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 361–371. https://doi.org/10. 
1145/3392063.3394418 
[89] Ying Xu and Mark Warschauer. 2020. Exploring Young Children’s Engagement 
in Joint Reading with a Conversational Agent. In Proceedings of the Interaction 
Design and Children Conference (London, United Kingdom) (IDC ’20). Association 
for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 216–228. https://doi.org/10. 
1145/3392063.3394417 
===== PAGE 22 =====
CHI ’23, April 23–28, 2023, Hamburg, Germany Lee et al. 
A EXAMPLE DIALOGUE GENERATED BY OUR 
PIPELINE 
Figure 11: Example thread from the dialogue tree generated for the answer to the question “Why do we scratch our heads when 
confused?” 